## What is a Blockchain?

A blockchain is a chain of blocks that are cryptographically connected, where each block contains some immutable data.

This data is primarily transactions that take place within the blockchain.

These transactions are grouped and put in a block. A consensus mechanism decides whether this block is accepted into the current chain.

The longest chain of blocks is the main blockchain.

## What is Ethereum?

Ethereum is a blockchain with a computer embedded in it. This computer is called the *Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)*. Everyone in the Ethereum network, i.e., every node in the ethereum network, agrees upon the state of the EVM and keeps a copy. Any participant can request the EVM to perform a computation, and whenever such a request is broadcasted, the other participants on the network verify, validate, and execute this computation. The execution of this computation causes a state change in the EVM, and so this change is broadcasted throughout the network for everyone to update the state of their copy.

The requests for computations are called transaction requests, and a record of all these transactions, including the EVM's current state, is stored on the blockchain, which is agreed upon by all the nodes and stored with them.

Cryptographic mechanisms ensure none of the transactions can be tampered with once they are executed and added to the blockchain. They also ensure all the transactions are signed and executed with appropriate permissions.

## What is Ether?

**Ether (ETH)** is the native cryptocurrency of Ethereum. We have talked about above that whenever a transaction is requested, some form of verification, validation, and execution happens, which is done by the network participants.

ETH is the incentive provided to these participants to perform their tasks honestly, and the requestor has to pay for their request. The amount to be paid per request varies according to the usage of resources required to execute their request.

This helps prevent participants from clogging the network with unnecessary requests as they have to for the computational resources needed to execute each request.

Additionally, ETH also provides crypto-economic security to the network in three ways:
- It is used to reward the validators who propose blocks or call out dishonest validators.
- It is staked by validators (collateral against dishonest behavior).
- It is used to weigh votes for newly proposed blocks, deciding which blocks would be concatenated to the main chain.

## What are Smart Contracts?

Smart contracts are snippets of code uploaded into the EVM state by application developers. Whenever participants want to request a transaction, they wouldn't have to write a new piece of code every time; instead, they could call the snippets in the EVM with the required parameters.

Any developer can upload a smart contract and make it public to the network by paying a fee to the network, and any user can call the smart contract to execute its code by paying a fee to the network.
